Avenue Dataset Object Tracking System
Author: Arjun Pawar Organization: IIT Bombay Project: Winter in Data Science (WIDS)

Project Overview
This repository contains a multi-object tracking system implemented using the YOLOv5 framework and the SORT (Simple Online and Realtime Tracking) algorithm. The system is evaluated on the Avenue Dataset for Abnormal Event Detection, focusing on the "Testing" video set to demonstrate robust tracking in complex surveillance environments.

Technical Core
The project utilizes a "Tracking-by-Detection" architecture, which relies on two mathematical pillars to maintain object identity across frames:

1. Motion Prediction (Kalman Filter)

The system uses a Kalman Filter to estimate the future position of each pedestrian. By modeling the velocity and position of each ID, the tracker can predict where a person will be in the next frame, even if they are momentarily obscured.

2. Data Association (Hungarian Algorithm)

To link new detections to existing tracks, the Hungarian Algorithm is employed. It solves the assignment problem by matching the predicted locations (from the Kalman Filter) with the actual bounding boxes detected by YOLOv5, ensuring that ID numbers (e.g., ID 1, ID 2) remain consistent throughout the video.

Features
Real-time Tracking: Efficient processing suitable for surveillance applications.

Identity Persistence: Maintains unique IDs for multiple individuals simultaneously.

Automated Batch Processing: Scripts designed to process entire folders of video data and export tracked results automatically.

Repository Structure
run_tracking.py: The primary script for processing videos and generating tracked output.

sort.py: The core tracking logic implementing the Kalman Filter and Hungarian Algorithm.

requirements.txt: List of dependencies including PyTorch, OpenCV, and FilterPy.

OUTPUT_VIDEOS/:  contains sample output videos with tracking overlays.
